# PTF-Bayesian-calibration
**Bayesian Recalibration of an Existing Pedotransfer Function Using National Soil Data**

Pedotransfer functions (PTFs) are used to bridge the gap between available and necessary soil information. In practice, existing PTFs are often applied beyond their original calibration domains, despite being developed under specific pedo-climatic, land use, and methodological conditions, which may limit their transferability to other regions. However, their structural form and predictor selection provide useful information, which is worth incorporating when region- or national-specific calibration of these PTFs is targeted. We propose a Bayesian framework for recalibrating existing PTFs using national soil data. The approach explicitly incorporates prior information from existing PTF structures and updates parameter estimates using region-specific data through Bayesian inference. The methodology is demonstrated using Alexander's (1980) PTF, which predicts bulk density from soil organic carbon content (**PTF_recalibration.R**). Additionally, the effect of calibration sample size on prediction performance and uncertainty is also evaluated (**Sample_size_effect.R**). The proposed methodology can support the implementation of the EU Soil Monitoring Law by enabling country-specific calibration of PTFs to predict soil descriptors that are difficult to measure.

**Acknowledgement:** This research was funded by the National Research, Development and Innovation Office (NKFIH, grant number: FK-146391 and K-134563) and by the European Union's Horizon Europe Research and Innovation Programme under grant agreement No. 101296615 (project SOILHARMONY).
